# Domain 2.0 - Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations
# Subdomain 2.2 - Threat Vectors and Attack Surfaces
# Format: question|answer_a|answer_b|answer_c|answer_d|correct_idx|explanation|domain|subdomain

What type of attack vector uses deceptive emails to trick users into revealing sensitive information?|Vishing|Phishing|Smishing|Whaling|1|Phishing uses deceptive emails to trick recipients into revealing credentials, downloading malware, or clicking malicious links. Vishing uses voice calls, smishing uses SMS/text messages, and whaling specifically targets executives with phishing.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which threat vector involves attackers manipulating people rather than exploiting technical vulnerabilities?|Malware|Social engineering|SQL injection|DDoS|1|Social engineering manipulates people into divulging information or performing actions that compromise security. It exploits human psychology rather than technical vulnerabilities. Malware exploits software, SQL injection exploits databases, and DDoS targets availability.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

What is the attack vector when an attacker sends malicious text messages?|Phishing|Vishing|Smishing|Pharming|2|Smishing (SMS phishing) is an attack vector using text messages to deliver malicious links or request sensitive information. Phishing uses email, vishing uses voice calls, and pharming redirects web traffic to fraudulent sites.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which threat vector involves leaving infected USB drives in public places for victims to find?|Social engineering|Removable media|Wireless attack|Supply chain attack|1|Removable media attacks involve leaving infected USB drives, CDs, or other portable storage devices for victims to find and connect to their systems out of curiosity. This is a physical attack vector that leverages human curiosity.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

What attack vector exploits unpatched software vulnerabilities?|Zero-day|Social engineering|Vulnerable software|Physical security breach|2|Vulnerable software attacks exploit known, unpatched vulnerabilities in operating systems, applications, or services. Zero-day exploits target unknown vulnerabilities, social engineering targets people, and physical breaches target facilities.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which vector involves compromising a product during its manufacturing or distribution?|Direct attack|Supply chain attack|Insider threat|Wireless attack|1|Supply chain attacks compromise products, software, or hardware during manufacturing, distribution, or update processes. This allows attackers to reach many organizations through a trusted vendor or supplier. Direct attacks target the organization directly, insider threats come from within, and wireless attacks target networks.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

What is an open service port considered in security terms?|A security control|A threat vector|An attack surface|A mitigation technique|2|Open service ports represent an attack surface - potential entry points that could be exploited. They're not threat vectors (methods of attack) themselves, but expand the attack surface by providing more potential targets. They're not security controls or mitigation techniques.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which attack uses voice calls to impersonate trusted entities and extract information?|Phishing|Vishing|Smishing|Impersonation|1|Vishing (voice phishing) uses phone calls where attackers impersonate legitimate entities (IT support, banks, government agencies) to manipulate victims into revealing sensitive information or performing actions. Phishing uses email, smishing uses text, and impersonation is a broader technique.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

What type of threat vector targets executives or high-profile individuals specifically?|Spear phishing|Whaling|Phishing|Pharming|1|Whaling is a targeted phishing attack aimed at high-profile individuals like executives, celebrities, or politicians. Spear phishing targets specific individuals or groups but not necessarily executives. Phishing is mass-scale, and pharming redirects web traffic.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which threat vector involves exploiting weaknesses in wireless network security?|Wired attack|Wireless attack|Supply chain|Social engineering|1|Wireless attacks exploit vulnerabilities in Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or other wireless protocols. Examples include rogue access points, evil twins, WEP/WPA cracking, and wireless eavesdropping. Wired attacks target physical networks, supply chain targets vendors, and social engineering targets people.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

What security risk is created by using default credentials on systems and devices?|It increases performance|It creates an easily exploitable attack vector|It improves compatibility|It simplifies management|1|Default credentials (default usernames and passwords) are publicly known and documented, making them an easily exploitable attack vector. Attackers can quickly gain unauthorized access to systems that haven't changed default credentials. They don't improve performance, compatibility, or truly simplify management.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

Which attack vector embeds malicious code in image files?|Malicious macro|Image-based attack|PDF exploit|Script injection|1|Image-based attacks hide malicious code within image files (steganography) or exploit vulnerabilities in image processing libraries. When the image is viewed or processed, the malicious code executes. Macros are in documents, PDF exploits target PDFs, and script injection targets web applications.|2.0 Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|2.2 Threat Vectors

An employee receives an email claiming to be from their bank, asking them to click a link to verify suspicious account activity. The link leads to a fake website designed to steal credentials. What type of attack vector is this?|Smishing|Phishing|Vishing|Impersonation|1|Phishing is an untargeted email-based attack in which deception plays a major part. Using seemingly genuine emails, attackers cast their nets wide, aiming to lure recipients into divulging personal data, passwords, or financial details. Phishing attacks capitalize on human curiosity, urgency, and trust, often leading recipients to click on malicious links or provide confidential information unknowingly. The email appears to come from a legitimate authority (like a bank) to create authenticity. Smishing uses SMS text messages, vishing uses voice calls, and impersonation typically involves adopting a false identity in person or over the phone.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security team discovers that an attacker compromised a widely-used supplier's software update mechanism to distribute malware to thousands of customers. What type of threat vector is this?|Direct network attack|Supply chain attack|Insider threat|Vulnerable software|1|Supply chain attacks target the relationships between organizations and their vendors, suppliers, or managed service providers (MSPs). A single compromise within the supply chain can ripple across multiple clients, leading to cascading breaches. Attackers recognize that targeting a supplier with weaker security measures provides an entry point to larger networks. The software update mechanism is particularly valuable because users trust updates from legitimate vendors. Organizations should implement comprehensive vendor risk assessments, evaluate security protocols, and monitor suppliers to mitigate supply chain vulnerabilities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker sends targeted emails to the board of directors of a company, personalized with specific details about recent company projects. The emails appear to come from the CEO and request urgent wire transfers. What type of attack is this?|Generic phishing|Spear phishing|Whaling|Business email compromise|1|Spear phishing is a more targeted variant of phishing that involves attacks directed at specific groups, such as the board of directors or executives. These emails are tailored with specific details to create a sense of authenticity and urgency, enticing victims to take action. Unlike generic phishing which casts a wide net, spear phishing researches targets to craft convincing messages. While this could also be considered whaling (targeting executives) or business email compromise, the key characteristic here is the personalized, targeted nature of the email attack directed at a specific group within the organization.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A user receives a text message claiming they've won a prize and must click a link to claim it. The link downloads malware onto their mobile device. What attack vector is this?|Phishing|Vishing|Smishing|Pretexting|2|Smishing extends phishing techniques to SMS (Short Message Service) text messages, tricking recipients into clicking malicious links. While SMS may appear innocuous, its role in delivering sensitive information and authentication codes makes it a prime target for attackers. The seemingly harmless SMS could hold the key to a breach. Smishing messages often create urgency (prize claims, account alerts, delivery notifications) to prompt immediate action without careful consideration. Unlike phishing (email), vishing (voice calls), or pretexting (fabricated scenarios), smishing specifically uses text messaging as the attack vector.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An organization discovers that employees are connecting USB drives from unknown sources to corporate computers. Which threat vector poses the greatest risk in this scenario?|Email-based attacks|Removable device attacks|Voice call attacks|Image-based attacks|1|Removable devices (USB drives, external hard drives) offer convenient data transfer but can serve as conduits for malware transmission. When introduced into a network, infected removable devices can spread malware, compromise security, and enable unauthorized access. A common attack involves dropping malicious USB drives in reception areas where they can be easily found; when the unsuspecting finder plugs the USB into their computer to trace its owner, they unknowingly trigger malicious code that grants the attacker control. Any USB files found should be given to the security team who will open them in a sandbox, preventing malicious code from executing on the network.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company uses open Wi-Fi for guest access without any encryption. An attacker in the parking lot intercepts unencrypted traffic containing customer credit card information. What threat vector enabled this attack?|Vulnerable software|Unsecure wireless network|Default credentials|Open service ports|1|Unsecure wireless networks, particularly those using open system authentication without encryption, allow unauthorized users to connect and intercept data. Data exchanged on unencrypted networks is sent in plain text that cybercriminals can intercept to eavesdrop, potentially accessing sensitive information such as login credentials, personal messages, and financial details. Strategies to protect wireless networks include: using encryption (WPA2/WPA3), disabling SSID broadcast to obscure network presence, implementing MAC filtering to ensure only approved devices connect, and separating guest networks from corporate infrastructure.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker calls an employee claiming to be from the IT helpdesk, stating there's a critical security issue that requires the employee to provide their password immediately. What type of attack vector is this?|Phishing|Smishing|Vishing|Pretexting|2|Vishing (voice phishing) involves using voice calls to manipulate victims into revealing sensitive information or taking harmful actions. Attackers can use caller ID spoofing to disguise the true origins of a call, making it appear the call comes from a legitimate entity like the IT department. The attacker creates urgency (critical security issue) to bypass the victim's normal skepticism and convince them to reveal sensitive information over the phone. While this also involves pretexting (fabricating a scenario), the primary threat vector is the voice call itself, making vishing the most accurate classification.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security administrator discovers that several network devices still use "admin/admin" for authentication. Which threat vector does this represent?|Vulnerable software|Unsupported systems|Default credentials|Open service ports|2|Default credentials (often set by manufacturers for ease of installation) are a glaring point of weakness. Attackers leverage default usernames and passwords (like admin/admin, root/password, or admin/password) to gain unauthorized access to systems and applications. These default credentials are often posted on public websites, making them easily accessible to attackers. Organizations must change all default credentials during initial device configuration and implement policies requiring strong, unique passwords. Automated scanning tools can detect systems still using default credentials across the network.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker discovers that a web server has ports 21 (FTP), 23 (Telnet), and 445 (SMB) open and listening, even though these services are not needed for the application. What threat vector does this represent?|Default credentials|Vulnerable software|Open service ports|Unsecure networks|2|Unsecured open service ports are like unlocked doors for cybercriminals. These ports provide entry points to networked systems and applications. Attackers scan for these openings and exploit them to gain unauthorized access or execute malicious code. Each open port expands the attack surface by providing another potential entry point. Best practices include: regular port scanning to identify open ports, closing unnecessary ports and services, implementing firewall rules to restrict access, and following the principle of least functionality (only enable services that are absolutely necessary for operations).|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company continues running Windows Server 2003 on critical systems because the custom application won't work on newer operating systems. What threat vector does this create?|Open service ports|Default credentials|Unsupported systems and applications|Supply chain vulnerability|2|Unsupported systems and applications, including legacy and third-party software, are prime targets for malicious actors. When vendors stop supporting software, security patches and updates are no longer provided, leaving known vulnerabilities exposed. Hackers are adept at exploiting these known vulnerabilities for which patches are unavailable. By targeting these software gaps, attackers can gain unauthorized access, exfiltrate sensitive data, or launch large-scale attacks such as ransomware infections. Organizations must plan for system upgrades, virtualization, or application modernization to eliminate unsupported systems before they become security liabilities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker compromises a legitimate news website frequently visited by employees of a target organization, injecting malicious code that exploits browser vulnerabilities. What type of attack is this?|Phishing|Watering hole attack|Business email compromise|Direct network attack|1|Watering hole attacks are like cunning predators lurking at watering holes in the wild. Cybercriminals compromise legitimate websites that they know users trust by implanting malicious code. When unsuspecting visitors frequent these websites, their devices are infected with malware, which then grants attackers access to valuable data. The attack targets a specific group (employees of an organization) by compromising websites they commonly visit. The infamous watering hole attack on the U.S. Department of Labor's website in 2013 underscored the potential for compromise even on trusted platforms. Organizations can counter this by reinforcing website security and deploying advanced threat detection.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker creates fake emails and a fraudulent website that perfectly mimic a major bank's branding to steal customer credentials. What type of social engineering attack is this?|Impersonation|Brand impersonation|Pretexting|Phishing|1|Brand impersonation involves malevolent actors imitating reputable brands (such as banks and financial institutions) to deceive unsuspecting users. These cybercriminals capitalize on brand recognition, creating websites or emails that appear authentic with legitimate logos, colors, and messaging. Unlike general phishing (which may come from any apparent source) or impersonation (adopting a false personal identity), brand impersonation specifically leverages the trust users place in established brands. Organizations can combat this through: trademark monitoring, domain registration of similar names, user education about checking URLs and certificates, and reporting fake sites to registrars and authorities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker sends an email with an embedded image that contains hidden malicious code. When the email client renders the image, it exploits a vulnerability to execute the malicious payload. What attack vector is this?|File-based|Image-based|Message-based|Voice call|1|Image-based attacks exploit image vulnerabilities to embed harmful code or links. These seemingly harmless images can lead to unauthorized access, ransomware attacks, and system compromises. Images can carry more than meets the eye—attackers hide malicious code within image files using steganography or exploit image processing vulnerabilities. Guarding against image-based attacks necessitates: advanced image analysis tools to unveil concealed code or malware, disabling automatic image loading in email clients, implementing content filtering to scan images before delivery, and keeping image processing libraries updated to patch known vulnerabilities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security team discovers that an attacker modified legitimate PDF documents with embedded malicious scripts that execute when the document is opened. What threat vector is this?|Image-based|File-based|Message-based|Removable device|1|File-based attacks use files as digital couriers that unwittingly transport threats. Malicious files exploit software vulnerabilities, launching cyberattacks when opened. These files (PDFs, Office documents, executables) execute harmful code, enabling hackers to breach systems, steal data, or gain control remotely. Common file-based attack techniques include: macro-enabled Office documents with malicious VBA code, exploiting PDF readers with JavaScript or buffer overflows, weaponized archives (ZIP, RAR) with concealed malware, and trojanized legitimate-looking executables. Defending against file-based attacks requires: vigilant file screening, attachment blocking for high-risk file types, sandboxing suspicious files, and user education about file risks.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker calls employees pretending to be from the HR department, requesting Social Security numbers to "update payroll records." What social engineering technique is this?|Vishing|Pretexting|Impersonation|Business email compromise|1|This is vishing (voice phishing) combined with pretexting. Vishing uses voice calls to manipulate victims, while pretexting involves fabricating a scenario to extract information. The attacker poses as an HR representative (pretexting scenario) using a phone call (vishing vector) to convince employees to share sensitive data (Social Security numbers) under the guise of a legitimate business need. The combination of a plausible scenario (payroll update) with urgency creates psychological pressure to comply without verification. Organizations should implement: verification procedures for sensitive requests, callback protocols to confirm caller identity, security awareness training about pretexting techniques, and policies prohibiting disclosure of sensitive data via phone.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

Which threat vector is most effectively mitigated by disabling Bluetooth when not in use and keeping devices updated with security patches?|Wired network attacks|Wireless network attacks|Bluetooth personal area network (PAN) attacks|Removable device attacks|2|Bluetooth operates as a Personal Area Network (PAN) and presents specific vulnerabilities. Bluetooth features like easy pairing can open the door to security breaches—while designed to simplify device connections, they can inadvertently allow unauthorized access when left unchecked. Attackers equipped with specialized tools can exploit the relaxed pairing process, potentially infiltrating devices and compromising sensitive data. Mitigation strategies include: enabling Bluetooth only when actively needed to reduce the window of vulnerability, preventing devices from continuously broadcasting their presence, regularly updating devices with latest security patches, using Bluetooth in "non-discoverable" mode, and implementing strong pairing authentication.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An organization's managed service provider (MSP) suffers a security breach that exposes credentials for all customer environments. What type of threat vector enabled attacks on the organization?|Direct network attack|Insider threat|Supply chain attack via MSP|Vulnerable software|2|A managed service provider (MSP) is a third-party organization that fulfills all of a company's IT needs. A single compromise within an MSP's infrastructure can ripple across multiple clients, leading to cascading breaches. MSPs typically have privileged access to customer environments for management purposes, making them high-value targets. When an MSP is breached, attackers gain potential access to all customer networks. To mitigate this risk, organizations should: demand stringent security standards from MSPs, require regular audits and security assessments, implement robust access controls and MFA for MSP connections, monitor MSP activity, and require commitment to promptly patch vulnerabilities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker creates a fake social media profile impersonating a company executive and sends connection requests to employees, then uses the trusted connection to distribute malicious links. What attack vector is this?|Email phishing|Instant messaging (IM) attack|Business email compromise|Brand impersonation|1|Instant messaging (IM) platforms, including social media messaging, represent a growing attack vector. While IM often exhibits higher security than traditional SMS due to end-to-end encryption in many platforms, it still presents vulnerabilities. IM attack vectors include: distribution of malware-laden attachments, socially engineered messages that coax users into clicking malicious links, impersonation of trusted contacts (as in this scenario), and exploitation of user trust within professional networks. The attacker leverages the professional social network to establish false trust, then exploits that relationship to deliver malicious content. Organizations should educate employees about: verifying identities through multiple channels, being cautious of unexpected links even from apparent colleagues, and reporting suspicious social engineering attempts.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company allows vendors to connect to their network using VPN but doesn't require multi-factor authentication or segment vendor access. An attacker compromises a vendor's credentials. What threat vector enabled the breach?|Open service ports|Default credentials|Supply chain vulnerability via vendor|Unsupported systems|2|Vendor relationships often involve sharing sensitive information and network access, yet vendors can unwittingly serve as vectors for cyber threats. The relationship between organizations and their vendors represents a significant threat vector when proper security controls aren't implemented. Organizations should: implement comprehensive vendor risk assessments evaluating security protocols and practices before granting access, require MFA for all remote access including vendors, segment vendor access to only necessary systems (principle of least privilege), monitor vendor activity for anomalies, conduct regular security reviews of vendor connections, and establish clear security expectations within vendor contracts. Regular communication ensures alignment in security expectations, minimizing potential vulnerabilities introduced through vendor connections.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker sends invoice emails with modified payment details, redirecting funds to the attacker's account instead of the legitimate vendor. What type of attack is this?|Phishing|Business email compromise|Pretexting|Impersonation|1|Business email compromise (BEC) occurs when a cunning criminal compromises or impersonates a legitimate business email account to orchestrate financial fraud. A common technique is the invoice scam where attackers change payment details on legitimate invoices, redirecting funds to the attacker's account. BEC attacks are highly targeted and often involve: compromising executive or finance department email accounts, monitoring communications to understand business processes and payment cycles, timing attacks when executives are traveling or unavailable, creating urgency to bypass normal verification procedures, and using legitimate-looking email threads. BEC attacks cost billions annually and require: email authentication (SPF, DKIM, DMARC), multi-factor authentication, verification procedures for payment changes, out-of-band confirmation for large transfers.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker publishes fake news articles claiming a competitor's product contains security vulnerabilities, intending to manipulate stock prices and damage reputation. What social engineering technique is this?|Misinformation|Disinformation|Brand impersonation|Impersonation|1|Disinformation is the intentional spread of false or misleading information designed to manipulate perceptions and decisions. Unlike misinformation (spreading false information without intent to mislead, believing it to be true), disinformation is deliberately crafted to deceive. In this scenario, the attacker intentionally creates false security claims to: manipulate public perception, damage competitor reputation, influence stock prices, and create market advantage. Disinformation campaigns can: influence public opinion during crises, erode trust in legitimate information sources, create panic and prompt viral sharing, and achieve strategic objectives without direct technical attacks. Defense requires: media literacy training, verification of information from multiple authoritative sources, rapid response to false claims, and monitoring for reputation attacks.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A vulnerability scanner identifies systems running unpatched software with known CVE vulnerabilities. Should the security team use client-based scanning or agentless scanning for ongoing vulnerability management?|Agentless scanning for all systems|Client-based scanning for ongoing automated discovery|Use manual scanning only|Scanning is not necessary for patched systems|1|Client-based scanning operates with an agent residing on each host as a tool for automating vulnerability discovery and classification, efficiently reporting to a central management server. This approach provides: continuous monitoring capabilities, scheduled automated scans, detailed visibility into installed software and configurations, ability to scan even when systems are off the corporate network, and immediate reporting of newly discovered vulnerabilities. Agentless scanning (like Nmap, Wireshark) scans hosts without requiring installations and is preferred by threat actors during reconnaissance, but provides only point-in-time snapshots. For comprehensive vulnerability management, client-based scanning offers superior continuous visibility, though agentless scanning remains valuable for systems where agents cannot be installed or for external reconnaissance of the attack surface.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An organization patches all internet-facing systems but leaves internal wired network ports active in conference rooms without authentication. An attacker gains physical access and plugs into an unused port. What threat vector was exploited?|Wireless network|Unsecure wired network|Open service ports|Removable devices|1|Wired networks, often used by companies that rely on connectivity, harbor risks when left unsecured. Without proper encryption and access controls, unauthorized physical access to network ports can lead to data breaches and malware attacks. The threat includes: physical access to unused conference room, visitor area, or public space network jacks, bypassing perimeter security by directly connecting to internal network, lack of 802.1X authentication allowing any device to connect, and absence of VLAN segmentation exposing internal resources. To preserve the integrity and reliability of wired networks, organizations should: implement 802.1X port authentication requiring credentials before network access, disable unused network ports at the switch level, remove patch cables from unused ports, implement port security to limit MAC addresses, and segment networks using VLANs to contain breaches.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker registers the domain "arnazon.com" (with 'rn' instead of 'm') to trick users into entering credentials on a fake shopping site. What technique is this?|Brand impersonation|Typo squatting|Pretexting|Phishing|1|Typo squatting (also called URL hijacking or cybersquatting) involves registering domain names that are common misspellings or slight variations of legitimate domains to deceive users. Attackers exploit: common typing errors (arnazon vs amazon), visual similarities (rn vs m, l vs I, 0 vs O), alternative TLDs (.corn vs .com), and internationalized domain names with similar-looking Unicode characters. When users mistype URLs or click links with these domains, they land on: fake login pages designed to harvest credentials, malicious websites distributing malware, advertising sites generating revenue from misdirected traffic, or phishing operations impersonating legitimate businesses. Organizations defend against typo squatting by: registering common misspellings of their domains, monitoring for similar domain registrations, implementing trademark protection, and educating users to carefully verify URLs.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security team conducts mock phishing campaigns by sending deceptive emails to employees, then provides remedial training to those who click the links. What is the primary purpose of this activity?|To identify employees for termination|To strengthen cybersecurity awareness and preparedness|To test email security filters|To comply with regulatory requirements|1|Many companies conduct phishing campaign simulations to prepare employees to deal with phishing attacks responsibly. Due to the frequent occurrence of phishing attacks, proactive training is essential. The simulation process involves: sending mock phishing emails that mimic real attack tactics (urgency, authority, curiosity), tracking which employees click links or submit credentials, providing immediate feedback when employees fall for the simulation, offering remedial training for those who failed to identify the phishing attempt, and measuring improvement over time with repeated campaigns. This approach strengthens cybersecurity awareness by: providing safe, realistic experience with phishing tactics, demonstrating consequences without actual risk, reinforcing training with practical examples, identifying areas needing additional education, and creating a security-conscious culture.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker calls an organization claiming to be a system administrator who needs remote access credentials to "fix a critical server issue." The real admin is on vacation. What combination of techniques is being used?|Vishing and impersonation|Phishing and pretexting|Smishing and brand impersonation|Business email compromise|0|This attack combines vishing (voice phishing via phone call) with impersonation (adopting the false identity of a system administrator). The attacker exploits: knowledge that the real administrator is unavailable, urgency of a "critical server issue" to pressure immediate action, trust in the system administrator role's authority, and lack of verification procedures for phone-based requests. This represents a compound attack using multiple social engineering techniques to increase success probability. Defense mechanisms include: verification procedures requiring callback to known numbers, never providing credentials over the phone, requiring tickets for all support requests, implementing "trust but verify" culture, training employees about impersonation tactics, and establishing out-of-band verification for sensitive requests (e.g., confirming via email or chat before providing access).|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company's third-party supplier provides hardware components that arrive with pre-installed firmware backdoors. What aspect of the supply chain is compromised?|MSP services|Vendor software|Hardware supplier|Software supplier|2|Supply chain vulnerabilities extend to the very origins of products and components. Cybercriminals recognize that targeting a supplier with weaker security measures can provide an entry point to larger networks. Hardware suppliers can introduce threats through: pre-installed firmware backdoors, compromised components inserted during manufacturing, malicious chips added to circuit boards, or compromised BIOS/UEFI firmware. The hardware supply chain is particularly concerning because: firmware-level compromises are difficult to detect, hardware cannot be easily "patched" like software, procurement processes often don't include security verification of hardware, and nation-state actors have resources to compromise manufacturing. Organizations must: conduct due diligence in selecting and monitoring suppliers, establish clear security expectations within supplier contracts, consider trusted foundries for critical hardware, implement supply chain risk management strategies, and verify firmware integrity before deployment.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An organization discovers employees using personal cloud storage services to share work documents because the corporate file sharing system is too slow. What threat vector does this create?|Supply chain via unauthorized vendors|Shadow IT|Insider threat|Vulnerable software|1|Shadow IT refers to the use of unauthorized hardware, software, cloud services, or applications without IT department approval or knowledge. This creates security risks through: unmanaged and potentially vulnerable systems that bypass security controls, data leakage to unauthorized platforms, inability to monitor or audit activity, lack of security controls and encryption, potential compliance violations, and absence of data backup and recovery. Shadow IT typically emerges from: perceived IT bottlenecks or slow approval processes, desire for convenient modern tools, lack of awareness of security implications, and users prioritizing productivity over security. Managing shadow IT requires: understanding why users seek alternative solutions, providing approved alternatives that meet user needs, implementing cloud access security brokers (CASB) to detect unauthorized cloud usage, educating users about risks, and balancing security with productivity.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker leaves several USB drives labeled "Executive Salary Information" in a company's parking lot. An employee finds one and plugs it into their workstation out of curiosity. What social engineering principle is the attacker exploiting?|Authority|Scarcity|Curiosity|Fear|2|The attacker is exploiting human curiosity as a psychological manipulation technique. The attack leverages: enticing label ("Executive Salary Information") designed to trigger curiosity, physical placement in accessible location (parking lot) where employees will find it, assumption the finder will want to see the contents or return it to its owner, and trust that found items are not malicious. When plugged in, the USB drive executes malicious code granting the attacker control over the victim's computer. This attack combines the removable device threat vector with social engineering manipulation of human psychology. Common psychological triggers attackers exploit include: curiosity (seeing interesting content), helpfulness (trying to return found items), urgency (time-sensitive opportunities), authority (appearing to come from management), fear (threats or warnings), and greed (prizes or financial gain). Defense requires: security awareness training about physical security risks, policies prohibiting use of found USB devices, providing USB drives to security team for safe inspection in sandboxed environments.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security assessment reveals that the company website allows users to upload profile pictures without validating file types or scanning for embedded code. What threat vector does this create?|File-based attacks|Image-based attacks|Message-based attacks|Supply chain attacks|1|This creates vulnerability to both image-based and file-based attacks. Attackers can: upload images with embedded malicious code using steganography, exploit image processing vulnerabilities when the server or other users' browsers render the images, upload files with double extensions (image.jpg.exe) if validation is inadequate, use malicious SVG files containing JavaScript, or exploit path traversal to upload files to arbitrary locations. Proper mitigation requires: validating file extensions against an allow list, checking file signatures (magic bytes) to verify actual file type, scanning uploaded files for malware, converting images to remove metadata and potential embedded code, restricting file sizes to prevent resource exhaustion, storing uploaded files outside the web root with restricted execution permissions, and implementing content security policies (CSP) to limit execution of uploaded content.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

Which wireless security measure makes a network less visible to casual attackers but does not provide actual security against determined adversaries?|WPA3 encryption|Disabling SSID broadcast|MAC address filtering|802.1X authentication|1|Disabling the SSID broadcast obscures the network's presence by preventing it from appearing in the list of available networks, making it less visible to casual attackers. However, this is security through obscurity and does not provide actual protection because: the SSID is still transmitted in probe requests and responses, packet sniffing tools can easily detect "hidden" networks, determined attackers can capture the SSID from legitimate client connections, and the SSID is transmitted in clear text during the connection process. Effective wireless security requires: strong encryption (WPA2/WPA3) to protect data in transit, robust authentication mechanisms (802.1X with RADIUS), strong pre-shared keys (if using PSK mode), regular security assessments, and network segmentation. Disabling SSID broadcast can be part of a defense-in-depth strategy but should never be relied upon as a primary security control.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker monitors a company's social media to learn about an upcoming product launch, then sends emails to the project team pretending to be a partner requesting confidential launch materials. What reconnaissance technique enabled this targeted attack?|Port scanning|Vulnerability scanning|Open source intelligence (OSINT)|Network sniffing|2|While not explicitly a "threat vector" in the traditional sense, this demonstrates how attackers use open source intelligence (OSINT) gathering to enable social engineering attacks. The attacker: monitors public social media for business intelligence, identifies key personnel involved in projects, learns about timelines and project details from public sources, crafts targeted spear phishing emails using gathered intelligence, and impersonates partners or vendors to increase credibility. This reconnaissance makes the subsequent attack (spear phishing/pretexting) much more effective because the email contains: accurate project information increasing apparent legitimacy, proper timing (during active project phase), relevant context and terminology, and targeting of actual project team members. Organizations can defend by: limiting information shared publicly about projects and personnel, training employees about OSINT risks, implementing verification procedures for sensitive requests regardless of apparent legitimacy, monitoring their own public presence for exploitable information, and using separate communication channels to verify unexpected requests.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A financial institution discovers that attackers are exploiting a zero-day vulnerability in their custom banking application before a patch is available. What makes this threat vector particularly dangerous?|The application is custom-built|No patch or mitigation is available yet|It targets financial data|It affects a critical application|1|Zero-day vulnerabilities (those unknown to the vendor with no available patch) represent an especially dangerous threat vector because: no patch or update is available to fix the vulnerability, attackers have a window of opportunity before defenses can be implemented, traditional signature-based security tools cannot detect exploitation of unknown vulnerabilities, and the organization must rely on compensating controls while a patch is developed. While this scenario involves multiple risk factors (custom application, financial data, critical business function), the defining characteristic of a zero-day vulnerability is the absence of an available fix. Organizations facing zero-day threats must: implement defense-in-depth strategies so no single vulnerability compromises the entire system, use behavioral analysis and anomaly detection to identify exploitation attempts, deploy virtual patching through WAFs or IPSs, isolate affected systems if possible, work with vendors or internal teams to develop emergency patches, and monitor threat intelligence for IOCs related to zero-day exploits.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An employee receives a voicemail claiming to be from the IRS demanding immediate payment of back taxes via gift cards or face arrest. What combination of attack vectors is being used?|Vishing and impersonation using fear|Phishing and pretexting|Smishing and urgency|Business email compromise|0|This attack uses vishing (voice phishing via voicemail) combined with impersonation (fraudulently claiming to represent the IRS) and leverages fear as a psychological manipulation technique. The attack characteristics include: voice call/voicemail as the delivery mechanism, impersonation of government authority (IRS) to increase credibility, fear and urgency (threats of arrest) to override rational thinking, unusual payment method (gift cards) that should be a red flag, and pressure for immediate action to prevent verification. This represents a common scam that exploits: trust in government authority, fear of legal consequences, lack of knowledge about legitimate IRS procedures (the real IRS never demands immediate payment via phone, never requires specific payment methods like gift cards, and always sends written notices before calling). Defense includes: training about government impersonation scams, verification procedures (hang up and call official numbers), awareness that legitimate agencies don't use pressure tactics or demand gift cards, and reporting suspicious calls to authorities.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company's security policy requires all software to be downloaded from official vendor websites, but an attacker compromises the vendor's download server and replaces legitimate installers with trojanized versions. What threat vector is this?|Removable device|Supply chain attack|Vulnerable software|Unsecure network|1|This is a supply chain attack targeting the software supplier. By compromising the vendor's official download server, the attacker: breaches user trust in official sources, bypasses download policies that permit official vendors, affects all customers who download during the compromise window, and potentially remains undetected longer because downloads come from legitimate sources. This type of supply chain attack differs from general vulnerable software because: the vulnerability is in the software distribution mechanism, not the software itself, the attack occurs before software reaches the customer, and users are actively seeking to follow security best practices by using official sources. Historic examples include the NotPetya attack (via compromised update mechanism) and the SolarWinds breach. Mitigation strategies include: verifying digital signatures and checksums of downloaded software, monitoring vendor security advisories, implementing application whitelisting, using software composition analysis tools, maintaining vendor relationship and communication channels, and considering the security posture of software vendors during procurement.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An organization implements security awareness training but still experiences successful phishing attacks. Which additional technical control would most effectively reduce this threat vector?|Firewall rules|Email filtering and anti-phishing tools|Encryption|Port scanning|1|While security awareness training is essential, layered technical controls provide additional defense against message-based threats. Email filtering and anti-phishing tools: scan incoming emails for known phishing indicators, analyze links and attachments before delivery, check sender reputation and authentication (SPF, DKIM, DMARC), use machine learning to identify suspicious patterns, implement sandboxing to detonate suspicious attachments safely, provide warnings or quarantine suspected phishing emails, and reduce the volume of phishing emails that reach users. The defense-in-depth approach combines: technical controls (email filtering, link analysis, attachment sandboxing), administrative controls (policies, procedures, awareness training), and physical controls where applicable. Even with technical controls, some phishing emails will reach users, so awareness training remains critical. Together, these controls significantly reduce successful phishing attacks by: blocking many attacks before they reach users, identifying attacks that bypass filters, and training users to recognize and report threats that penetrate all defenses.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A security team discovers that corporate applications don't validate user input, allowing attackers to upload executable files disguised as documents. Which two threat vectors does this enable?|Image-based and voice call|File-based and vulnerable software|Message-based and removable device|Supply chain and default credentials|1|This vulnerability enables file-based attacks (malicious files uploaded and executed) through vulnerable software (application fails to validate input properly). The lack of input validation allows: uploading files with double extensions (document.pdf.exe), bypassing file type restrictions through content-type manipulation, uploading executable files to accessible web directories, exploiting insufficient output encoding when files are accessed, and potential remote code execution if the application processes uploaded files. This represents the intersection of two threat vectors: file-based attacks use malicious files as the delivery mechanism, while vulnerable software provides the weakness that enables the attack. Proper mitigation requires: input validation with strict allow lists of permitted file types, verification of file signatures (magic bytes) not just extensions, storing uploaded files outside web root with no-execute permissions, implementing size limitations, scanning uploads with antimalware, sandboxing file processing operations, and following secure coding practices (OWASP guidelines).|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

An attacker creates a fake LinkedIn profile impersonating a recruiter and contacts employees with job offers, requesting them to complete an "application" on a malicious website. What attack vectors and techniques are combined here?|Instant messaging, impersonation, and pretexting|Email, phishing, and brand impersonation|Voice call, vishing, and social engineering|Removable device and malware|0|This attack combines multiple social engineering vectors and techniques: instant messaging (LinkedIn messaging platform) as the delivery mechanism, impersonation (fake recruiter identity) to establish false trust, and pretexting (fabricating the job offer scenario) to motivate action. The attack exploits: professional networking platforms where connection requests are common, desire for career advancement and better job opportunities, trust in the LinkedIn platform and recruiter roles, and gathering of credentials or personal information through the fake application. Modern social engineering attacks frequently combine multiple vectors and techniques to increase effectiveness. The layered approach defeats single-point defenses: if users are trained against email phishing, attackers move to social media; if users verify email addresses, attackers use platform messaging; if users are skeptical of cold outreach, attackers build rapport first. Defense requires: education about attacks across all communication platforms, verification through independent channels, cautionabout unsolicited opportunities, and organizational monitoring for employees being targeted.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors

A company's web application uses unpatched libraries with known vulnerabilities. An attacker exploits these vulnerabilities to gain unauthorized access. Should the security team prioritize patching or replacing the vulnerable software?|Neither - implement firewall rules instead|Patching immediately to close known vulnerabilities|Replacing the software with a different solution|Wait for the next scheduled maintenance window|1|Vulnerable software refers to programs or applications that possess weaknesses or flaws that can be exploited by malicious actors. These vulnerabilities often arise from: coding errors, design flaws, outdated components, or unpatched known issues. When vulnerable software is identified, immediate patching should be prioritized because: attackers actively scan for and exploit known vulnerabilities, exploit code is often publicly available for known CVEs, the window between vulnerability disclosure and exploitation is shrinking, and automated attack tools target unpatched systems. Regular security updates, patch management, and adherence to best coding practices are essential. The patching process should: prioritize based on severity and exploitability, test patches in non-production environments first, have emergency patching procedures for critical vulnerabilities, maintain accurate inventory of software and versions, and monitor vendor security advisories. Failure to address vulnerable software can lead to: data breaches, financial losses, reputational damage, and regulatory penalties.|Threats, Vulnerabilities, and Mitigations|Threat Vectors
